Update window.open on document / window creation and load behavior (#43913)
mdn/content: files/en-us/web/api/window/open/index.md

## Description

> The [`Window`](/en-US/docs/Web/API/Window) interface's `open()` method takes a URL as a parameter, and loads the resource it identifies into a new or existing tab or window.

Author: ```suggestion
The [`Window`](/en-US/docs/Web/API/Window) interface's `open()` method takes a URL as a parameter, and loads the resource it identifies into a new or existing browsing context.
```
The top of this file says 
> The open() method of the [Window](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/Window) interface loads a specified resource into a new or existing browsing context (that is, a tab, a window, or an [iframe](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/HTML/Reference/Elements/iframe)) under a specified name.

so I think "browsing context" is more consistent and also more correct as it includes iframes.

> The `target` parameter determines which window or tab to load the resource into, and the `windowFeatures` parameter can be used to control the features of the new window, such as whether it is a tab or a popup with minimal UI features, its size and position, and so on.

Author: ```suggestion
The `target` parameter determines which browsing context to load the resource into, and the `windowFeatures` parameter can be used to control the features of the new window, such as whether it is a tab or a popup with minimal UI features, its size and position, and so on.
```

> The `target` parameter determines which window or tab to load the resource into, and the `windowFeatures` parameter can be used to control the features of the new window, such as whether it is a tab or a popup with minimal UI features, its size and position, and so on.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `target` parameter determines which window, tab, or frame, to load the resource into, and the `windowFeatures` parameter can be used to control the features of the new window, such as whether it is a tab or a popup with minimal UI features, its size and position, and so on.
```

> The [`Window`](/en-US/docs/Web/API/Window) interface's `open()` method takes a URL as a parameter, and loads the resource it identifies into a new or existing tab or window. The `target` parameter determines which window or tab to load the resource into, and the `windowFeatures` parameter can be used to control to open a new popup with minimal UI features and control its size and position.

Reviewer: While we're here fix the grammar
```suggestion
The [`Window`](/en-US/docs/Web/API/Window) interface's `open()` method takes a URL as a parameter, and loads the resource it identifies into a new or existing tab or window.
The `target` parameter determines which window or tab to load the resource into, and the `windowFeatures` parameter can be used to control the features of the new window, such as whether it is a tab or a popup with minimal UI features, its size and position, and so on.
```

> When `window.open()` returns, the new window always contains `about:blank`. If a different URL was provided, it is loaded asynchronously. The global object is reused for this initial load, so properties set on it may persist.

Reviewer: This looks good, but are you sure about the first sentence?

> the new window always contains `about:blank`

Doesn't the [spec](https://html.spec.whatwg.org/#window-open-steps) indicate this is only true if `If target is the empty string, then set target to "_blank".` ?

Author: `target` refers to the name of the browsing context where the URL is loaded, not what is loaded.

I mostly kept the sentence that was already here, but you're right that it's not true.

https://html.spec.whatwg.org/#the-rules-for-choosing-a-navigable
If the resource is loaded in an existing navigable (`_parent`, `_top`, `_self`, known name...), then there won't be an `about:blank`.

Reviewer: Hmmm.  If its not true we shouldn't write it.

This stuff is hard (for me at least) to infer from the spec, but I think this statement is scoped only to the case of a new window/browsing context being opened. If you're opening a window in an existing navigable/context then the target would be the same.

The minimal "fix" might then be to make this scope clear. Does this make sense and address the cases (disclosure, this is from a discussion I had with Claude):

```suggestion
When `window.open()` targets a new browsing context, it will initially contain `about:blank` while the page loads.
If the target is an existing navigable (`_self`, `_parent`, `_top`, or a known window name), the existing page stays visible until the new one loads.
In either case, the navigation is asynchronous — `window.open()` returns before the URL has loaded.
For new browsing contexts, the initial `Window` global object is reused when the first document loads (if same-origin), so properties set on it before the load may persist.
```

Author: Oh, I'm sorry. I had added comments and suggestions, but they were "pending" in Github.

---

> This stuff is hard (for me at least) to infer from the spec, but I think this statement is scoped only to the case of a new window/browsing context being opened. If you're opening a window in an existing navigable/context then the target would be the same.

I'm unsure what you mean by that. On the MDN page, this is under "Description" which doesn't seem scoped to new BC. The spec algorithm I referenced is used in https://html.spec.whatwg.org/#window-open-steps step 13, i.e. `window.open()`. Maybe you mean the paragraph we're discussing.

---

> In either case, the navigation is asynchronous — `window.open()` returns before the URL has loaded.

This isn't true: If the requested URL is `about:blank`, it loads synchronous (browsers do load it, I think the spec just creates it without `load` event). Your statement would imply there is always an async `load` event one could wait for. 

That's why I phrased it as "If a different URL was provided, it is loaded".

---

Thanks for including the "(if same-origin)" part, that's good to include. I think it's step 6 of https://html.spec.whatwg.org/#initialise-the-document-object.

Reviewer: @vinhill Does this make sense ^^^

Author: I made a similar suggestion before your suggested change. I updated it slightly, maybe it's too technical / concise. But this is how I would suggest phrasing the paragraph to cover that there isn't always `about:blank`.

```suggestion
When `window.open()` returns and creates a new browsing context, it always contains `about:blank`. If a different URL was provided, it is loaded asynchronously. This initial load reuses the global object if the navigation is same-origin, so properties set on it may persist.
```

Reviewer: That is very precise - and perhaps assumes a little too much knowledge. I'd also like to be explicit about the `_self` etc. cases. How about this?

```suggestion
When `window.open()` creates a new browsing context (i.e., when no existing window with that name is found), the window initially contains `about:blank`.
If a different URL was provided, it is loaded asynchronously, and the global object is reused for that navigation if it is same-origin — so any properties set on the window before the load may persist.
If target refers to an existing navigable (`_self`, `_parent`, `_top`, or a known window name), no `about:blank` phase occurs — the browser navigates the existing context directly.
```

Author: Seems good, thank you!
